back at camp the team are preparing for
another darting mission
attempting to collar anastasia again is
not an option
so today the team will move on to a new
elephant a bull
bull elephants often come into conflict
with people in the wild
and colouring them can provide critical
data on exactly where the trouble is
brewing
ian is a passionate pilot with 40 years
experience
he'll lead the operation from the air
ian has spotted the bull elephants but
they're in very thick bush
he directs the team to the bulls
location they'll have to move fast to
catch up with him
just a thin wall of bushes separates dr
chegeh
from essedai a four-ton bull elephant
with just one enormous spear-like tusk
the save the elephant's team have been
watching him for six years
and he's now just coming into his prime
[Music]
and i'm a very small body david
is a very small
even though the team know aside they
don't know exactly how he'll react
look at that
that's it can you tell me yeah that
indian that is everyone
[Music]
has headed into the undergrowth and they
mustn't lose sight of him before he goes
down
[Music]
ian can still see him from the air and
guides the team into positions
not very good position
only when dr is sure that he's properly
anesthetized can the team move in
we need to be a little bit fast guys
the team springs into action must only
be down for the shortest time possible
how long was that someone recording oh
we did time down frank
everyone knows their role i needed to
come back a little bit
david's in charge of the collar but
esidae is lying on the edge of a dry
riverbank
and the angle is tricky
anesthetized elephants can easily
overheat the water helps keep acid eye
cool
be careful okay just one minute
blood and tissue samples can tell the
team who eside's relatives are
perhaps even revealing the identity of
his own mother
administers the antidote to bring him
round
i always feel it's a little bit like
those people who think they've been
zapped by aliens
and they come too with this huge alien
device around their neck
but actually it doesn't really bother
the elephants at all it doesn't weigh
that much
after a few days once they've touched it
and felt it they
forget about it completely now well done
everybody he's looking great
i'm excited to see what esserdai brings
us i mean where is he going to go next
what's happening in this particular
brawl's life
[Music]
you